in 2005 u.s army librarian corporal joe
bowers is selected for a suspended
animation experiment as the most average
individual in the entire armed forces
lacking a suitable female candidate the
military
hires a prostitute named rita and bribes
her pimp upgrade
when the officer in charge is arrested
for running his own prostitution ring
under upgrades tutelage
the experiment is forgotten over the
next
five centuries societal expectations
lead the most
intelligent humans to choose not to have
children while the least intelligent
reproduce indiscriminately
creating increasingly dumber generations
in 2505 joe and rita's suspension
chambers are unearthed by the collapse
of a mountain-sized garbage pile
joe's chamber crashes into the apartment
of frito-pendejo
wandering what was once washington d.c
joe is faced with a population that has
become profoundly anti-intellectual
speaking only low registers of english
and wallowing in over-consumption and
crass-popular entertainment
their technology is advanced but often
malfunctioning
driven by garish commercialism believing
that he is hallucinating after only a
year of hibernation
joe enters a hospital and realizes the
truth
he is arrested for not having a barcode
tattoo to pay for his doctor's
appointment
and is sent to prison after being
assigned the grossly incompetent pendujo
as his lawyer
joe is renamed not sure by a faulty
speech recognition tattooing machine and
takes a rudimentary iq test
then tricks a guard by claiming that he
is meant to be released
and simply walks out the door he finds
frido
who reveals that a time machine exists
to return him to 2005
and joe bribes him with promises of
riches through compound interest on a
bank account he will open for frito in
the 21st century
leading joe and rita to the time machine
frito takes them into a gigantic costco
store
where joe is identified by a tattoo
scanner and apprehended
taken to the white house joe is
appointed secretary of the interior
as the iq test identified him as the
most intelligent person alive
president camacho introduces joe to the
legislative body
and gives him the impossible job of
fixing the nationwide food shortages
dust bowls and crippled economy within a
week
joe discovers that the nation's crops
are irrigated with brondo
a thirst mutilator whose parent
corporation purchased the fda
fcc and usda when joe has the irrigation
system replaced with water drawn from
toilets
brando's stock drops to zero and half of
the population lose their jobs
causing mass riots joe is sentenced to
die in a monster truck demolition derby
featuring undefeated rehabilitation
officer beef supreme
however beef's oversized vehicle is
crushed trying to enter the arena
and joe manages to defeat the other
vehicles
rita and frito discover that joe's
reintroduction of water to the soil has
allowed vegetation to grow
they arrange for the sprouting crops to
be shown on the stadium's jumbotron
prompting camacho to give joe a
presidential pardon
joe and rita decide to stay in the
future though discover they had no
choice as the time machine frito
mentioned is merely a childishly
inaccurate history-themed amusement ride
following camacho's term joe is elected
president and marries rita
they conceive the world's three smartest
children while new vice president fredo
takes eight wives and fathers 32 of the
world's stupidest children
in a post-credits scene upgrade awakens
from his own suspension chamber and sets
off in search of rita